---
title: Release
has_children: false
nav_order: 7
---

# Release

The project release is automatically generated by the CI (as described in the corresponding section). Once the release is generated, it is published on GitHub and on [PyPI platform](https://pypi.org/project/medbook-medical-hub/). Specifically, the release on GitHub contains both artefact code and tests packages when on PyPI platform only artefact code package.

## Choice of the license

The project is released under the **Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)** license. It provides a balance between open access for educational purposes and protection against unauthorized commercial use.

### Human Explanation

| Permissions | Limitations | Conditions |
| ------------ |------------ |------------ |
✅ Private use | ❌ Liability  | Attribution and copyright notice |
✅ Modification | ❌ No endorsement | Indicate changes (mark modifications) |
✅ Distribution | ❌ Warranty | Link to the license |
❌ Commercial use | ❌ Trademark & patent rights not granted | NonCommercial only; no additional restrictions |

### Reasons for choosing this license:
1. **Attribution required** — every user must credit the original author of the project;
2. **Non-commercial restriction** — the code may be used for educational and research purposes but cannot be used in commercial products without explicit permission;  
3. **Educational openness** — the project remains accessible for analysis and modification by students and researchers, supporting academic value;  
4. **Uniqueness protection** — the license ensures that only the author retains exclusive rights for commercial exploitation of the project.  

---

## Choice of the versioning schema

In the project [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) was used since it’s the de-facto standard in open source, easy for humans and tools to read, and it integrates smoothly with automation (e.g., GitHub Actions for build/release pipelines). Consequently, the software version is represented by three numbers separated by a dot: MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH:
* MAJOR – incompatible changes or big rewrites that may break existing flows or data formats;
* MINOR – backward-compatible feature additions and notable improvements;
* PATCH – backward-compatible fixes and small tweaks.

### Release history
* **v0.2.1** - [15.12.25] - Release automation hardening: CI permissions fix for GitHub Releases;
* **v0.2.0** - [15.12.25] - Developer experience: refactoring of code with cleanups, chores and fixes. Test coverage ~81%;
* **v0.1.0** - [16.11.25] - Initial release: first runnable application with all functionality for user and test coverage with 50%.